_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Home"
excerpt: "Home"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Greetings! I am Md. Rafsan Jani, an aspiring PhD candidate. Currently, I am enrolled in the Master's program in Advanced Computing at Morgan State University, where I'm also working as a Graduate Research Assistant under the guidance of [Dr. Xiaowen Li](https://www.morgan.edu/climate-science/faculty-and-staff/xiaowen-li). In this role, my primary responsibility revolves around the application of deep learning techniques for the segmentation of 3D convective updraft cloud cells.

My academic journey began in Bangladesh, where I graduated from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Jahangirnagar University. Following my graduation, I transitioned into the role of a Lecturer at the same department, and I currently hold the position of an Assistant Professor. I am currently on a study leave as I embark on my pursuit of higher education.

In the grand scheme of things, my overarching objective is to propel my career in the field of machine learning. To achieve this, I am committed to continuous learning and skill development, with a specific focus on becoming a dependable researcher specializing in computer vision

Commit message:

updated the about me section

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Home"
excerpt: "Home"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Greetings! I'm Rafsan Jani, and I'm looking for a Ph.D position starting in Fall 2024. I am currently pursuing an MS in Advanced Computing at Morgan State University, which is fully funded. I am also working as a Graduate Research Assistant in the GESTAR division under the supervison of [**Dr. Xiaowen Li**](https://www.morgan.edu/climate-science/faculty-and-staff/xiaowen-li) in collaboration with [**Dr. Mahmudur Rahaman**]( https://www.morgan.edu/computer-science/faculty-and-staff/md-rahman)’s [Computer Vision Lab](https://mdrahmanlab.com/) for the past two years.

In this position, I have been responsible for generating 3D Convective Cloud Updraft Cell Datasets and developing a deep learning model for 3D instance segmentation of the dataset. This work has allowed me to gain valuable experience in working with large datasets, implementing deep learning instance segmentation models, and analyzing complex visual data. Both the dataset and segmentation model papers have been accepted for oral presentation at the 23rd Conference on Artificial Intelligence for Environmental Science, scheduled for January 2024.

Some of the relevant coursework I have completed during my MS in Advanced Computing at Morgan State University includes Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning in the Cloud, Advanced Network Security, and Cybersecurity. These courses have provided me with a strong foundation in the theoretical and practical aspects of machine learning in security and computer vision, which I believe will be invaluable in pursuing a Ph.D. in this field. I have also received the IBM Masters Fellowship Award and the Academic Trailblazer Award for my excellent academic records.

Originally, I am from Bangladesh, and I completed my graduation from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Jahangirnagar University. Following my graduation, I joined the same department as a Lecturer and later on promoted to an Assistant Professor. During my time at Jahangirnagar University, I taught undergraduate courses in computer science and engineering, including Introduction to Programming, Data Structures, and Algorithms. I was responsible for developing course materials, delivering lectures, and conducting lab sessions. I also mentored undergraduate students on their research projects and supervised their thesis work. This teaching experience has honed my communication skills and deepened my understanding of the subject matter. I have also received several academic honors for my outstanding performance and published several research papers in reputable journals. Currently, I am on study leave for pursing higher education.

My ultimate career goal is to become a leading researcher in the field of computer vision and security, working on cutting-edge technologies that have a significant impact on industries such as autonomous vehicles, environmental monitoring, healthcare, and robotics. I am passionate about pushing the boundaries of what is possible in computer vision and using my expertise to address real-world challenges.
